>> Hello.
I'm Chantal Westerman.
One of the most
unique opportunities
we have here at
Wisdom Television
is a great access to
some of the most popular
and widely read authors,
spiritual leaders, and speakers
on the holistic circuit today.
We at Wisdom Television believe
that now, more than ever,
people have begun personal
journeys, spiritual journeys.
So I'd like to ask you to
join us for a brand-new series
here on Wisdom called
the "Wisdom Workshops,"
and you'll be able to meet some
of the people who are leading
us on those journeys.
I ask that you bring
only two things--
an open mind and a willingness
to look at a different kind
of television.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You guys had the good
fortune of having great parents
to really lead
you and guide you.
But you were still
kids, and you were still
teenagers at one point.
So what's it like to get
in trouble by Dr. Chopra?
[LAUGHTER]
>> My mom, unfortunately,
had to take up the role
of disciplinarian because
he wasn't very good at it.
But--
[LAUGHTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
My name is Ocean Robbins,
and I'm 25 years old.
And what you may not realize is
that 2/3 of the world's surface
was actually named after
me, or so I'm told.
But actually, I
think my name also
reveals what generation
my parents were a part of.
When the Expo called
and asked, how would you
like to do an event, sort
of like the next generation
speaks out being the theme, I
said, wow, that would be great.
And they said, how
would you guys all
feel about having your
parents' names mentioned
in the publicity?
Or would you feel uncomfortable
with that, like you'd
like to not be in their shadow?
And I said, hey,
it's not a shadow.
It's the ground I walk on
as I carry forth in my life.
I feel so honored to be
associated with the work
that my mom and
my dad have done.
And these two guys pretty much
seem to feel the same way,
although we'll hear more
from them directly tonight.
And so it is really a joy
to be able to carry forth
the great work of our times
that our generation is
privileged to be able to do.
And a lot of people who
are part of the '60s
talk about the '60s a lot.
And one of the things
that I've often noticed
is people talk about it with
a real sense of sadness,
like there was some real
dream alive back then,
and then it kind of
didn't materialize
like people hoped it would.
And what I want to
say to all of you
is that the great dream
is still very much alive.
And despite the
assassinations of the '60s,
despite the cultural
ebbs and flows,
despite the consumerism,
and apathy, and the despair,
and the cynicism that
seems so rampant today,
there is still so much hope
and so much possibility.
And there are still so many
people doing incredible work.
And those of us who
are young today,
who are growing up
into this world,
have not only the
problems of our times
to reckon with but also
have the great work of all
who have gone before us to
learn from and to support us.
>> So I want to also
welcome everybody.
My name's Noah Levine.
And I'm looking forward to
spending some time together
this evening.
I think Ocean said so much
about not at all being concerned
about walking in the shadow
of my parents or our parents
but really having been deeply
inspired by the work that they
do, and with just a lot of
hope that we could do half
as good a job as they've
done with our generation,
and to continue to sow
the seeds of spirituality,
and consciousness, and
practice, and awareness
with our generation that seems
to have been skipped over
in some ways.
So I'm just really glad
to be here with everybody
and look forward to getting
to interact tonight.
>> OK.
And this always happens.
We did a radio show earlier,
and I was the last one to go.
And these guys always
say everything.
And I'm sort of, what's left?
I'm thrilled to be here.
This is the first time I've
ever done a Whole Life event.
My dad, of course,
has done a lot,
and he was very excited
about my participating.
He sort of considers
this part of his family,
so it seemed like a
natural for me to be here.
And what can I say too?
I mean, I just have been blessed
and very privileged to be
part of my family.
And I'd love to give--
I'd like to give my mother
as much credit as my dad.
Because everything
my dad talks about,
my mom is certainly the
proof of the pudding.
So, and it's great to be here.
And we got together
this morning,
and I met these two
guys for the first time.
And the first thing
I said to Noah
is like, man, cool
tattoos, you know?
And then we sat around,
and we said, what are we
going to talk about?
So we decided to
just be spontaneous.
We made some notes-- and
just create something that's
interactive, and
exciting, and dynamic,
and try to discover
some new things tonight.
So thanks for having us here.
[APPLAUSE]
We also wanted to
hear, unfortunately,
not from everyone, but we
wanted to hear from some of you,
to just generate a little
atmosphere, why you're here,
how you got here, and what
are some of the things
that you're looking for?
And what are some of the
things that you're doing
to achieve some of your goals?
So I'd invite-- if
a couple of people
could just help us set the
tone if they'd like to.
>> My awakening to who I am
really occurred when I was
in high school and
entering college--
and was never really
successful in the classroom,
really had an
inability to focus.
And I was led to an organization
called the Mental Fitness
Company and became aware very
quickly of your father's work.
And that book, really, I
read about seven times.
Just read it, stopped.
Read it, stopped.
I was amazed.
It totally-- many
of the things were
said in that book that
were said in a way
that I could understand.
And it really led
me to continuing
my path of personal growth.
>> My name is Dina Buechler.
I live here in Austin.
And what I notice here
tonight is that I actually
have two of the people in
minority here with me tonight,
which would be teenagers.
And my concern, and
it is a concern,
is why aren't there
more teenagers here?
Why aren't there more parents
with their teenagers here
tonight?
This place should
be overflowing.
That's my concern.
So I would like you
to address that.
>> My own enlightenment came
through a lot of adversity.
And you guys had
the good fortune
of having great parents to
really lead you and guide you.
But you were still
kids, and you were still
teenagers at one point.
So how did your
parents discipline you?
I mean, we're talking
about the teenagers.
And what's it like to get
in trouble by Dr. Chopra?
[LAUGHTER]
I mean, what does he do?
Did you get sent to your room?
What kind of things did
he get mad at you for?
>> Well, just to answer
that question, my mom,
unfortunately, had to take
up the role of disciplinarian
because he wasn't
very good at it.
But I'm glad--
I think, and just
to touch briefly
on some of your questions
also, the relationship
I had with my parents
is that my parents were
able to step out of the role
of just being the authority
figure.
They were able to be my
friend, I always felt,
because they established
a relationship where
I could go to them
with anything,
and I felt
comfortable with that.
I screwed up, and
I got into trouble.
And I got punished for that.
And the form of punishment
was sometimes grounding.
It was sometimes just being
screamed at, basically.
But there was also
always a release.
And there was an
ability by my parents
by leading by example to let
go, and to move on, and also
then step out of just
that authority role
and have fun together.
And that's one of the
things with my dad,
one of the best parts
of our relationship
is that we've had the ability to
just have a good time together,
and not worrying about
who is the parent, and who
is the child, who
was the student,
and who was the teacher.
We sort of interchange
those roles.
And I think that's the
most valuable thing
that I gained from my parents.
>> My parents didn't do the
thing that most parents do,
which is to call each other Mom
and Dad in my presence so that
I would do the
same as I grew up.
And so I call them John and Deo.
And the philosophy
behind that was
that they wanted
to be my parents,
but they wanted to be
much more than my parents.
They wanted to be my friends.
And they felt that if
we were to get stuck
in roles of
parent-child, then that
would limit our ability to grow
into new forms of relationship
as I got older.
And that's just
one symbolic thing.
I'm not saying that people
should or shouldn't do that.
But in my case, that was one
of the things that they did.
And another thing
is to explain why.
And to say "because
I told you so"
is one of the dumbest
responses I could ever
imagine to being asked, why
are you telling me to do this?
I think that kids always
have a right to know why.
And even then, to
have it be a command,
I think commands
should be reserved
for very urgent circumstances.
And the rest of the
time, there's requests.
There's suggestions.
There's guidance.
There's input.
There's ideas.
And if people are
always giving commands,
then the kid's not going
to respect it anymore
because they know
that not all of them
are that important, that you
must do it no matter what.
You know, yeah, there's life
and death situations where
a parent's got to give
a command on the spot
however forcefully it
takes to get the job done.
But there's a lot of situations
where it's like, put that down,
rather than explaining why, and
then assuming that the kid has
the brains to respond
appropriately, and make
their own sensible decision,
and learn from it if they
make a dumb decision.
And my parents really did that
with me all the way through.
So for example, with
sugar, rather than saying,
don't eat sugar, which they
felt sugar wouldn't be the best
thing for me, they explained
to me how sugar affects blood
sugar levels, and how people
feel tired after they eat it
a little while later as
their blood sugar goes up,
and then it goes down.
And they said, next time you're
at a birthday party, notice.
I was like four at the time.
So the next time I was
at a birthday party--
[LAUGHTER]
So, and you'd be
amazed so often parents
talk baby talk to their kids.
And they're like, oh, how cute.
Do you want this?
And I used to get
really insulted
when people would do that to
me because my parents didn't
do that to me.
They'd talk to me straight like
I was a real human being, which
I figured I was.
And so I remember going
to a birthday party
and noticing how everyone
was having a great time.
And then the cake came out.
And everyone ate the cake.
And suddenly, they
were getting in fights,
and they were crabby,
and everything
was like really obnoxious.
And I thought, wow,
isn't that interesting.
And I never would've
noticed that otherwise,
but they told me to take a
look and to see what I noticed.
And then I knew it for myself.
And then it wasn't like, I
will never eat sugar again.
But I was like, I'm conscious
of how sugar affects me,
and I can make my own
choices with awareness.
And I think that's the key is
to respect a young person's
integrity and intelligence
enough to tell them the truth.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But why don't we take a
little time now for each of us
to share a little more about
ourselves, our message, what we
want to share with all of you.
And then we'll move into some
more interactive parts again
a little later and also respond
to some of the questions that
have been shared with us.
>> So I just want to tell
a few stories, actually,
instead of really going
into what I'm doing and what
I've done, just to tell
you a little bit why,
what brought me here,
and how I ended up here.
I'm going to start with
some common questions.
When I was young, people
would always ask me--
I remember getting lost
in a mall one time.
And while I was sort of sitting
with the person, the security
person, as my mom came to find
me, she started asking me,
she looked at me and
said, where are you from?
And I said, I'm from Lincoln,
which is where I grew up,
in a town outside of Boston.
And she kind of was a
little bit perplexed.
And I said, you know, I--
and I even at seven years
old, or how ever old I was,
I knew kind of what
she was getting
at because I had gotten
accustomed to this sort
of question.
So I said, my parents
are from India.
And I grew up--
I was born in Boston.
I've grown up here--
blah, blah.
But it's something that
always sort of stayed with me.
And my skin tone is
the type, as I learned
when I went to college
in New York City, that
can pass for Hispanic, or
Mediterranean, or South
Asian, which is a great
advantage in New York City too,
but except if you're trying
to get a taxi late at night.
Yes, yes.
So, but then I got
to New York City.
And I had gotten so
used to this question
that I started to ask
it of all my roommates
and things like that.
And one thing I noticed is my
first day I got to college--
and I had an
African-American roommate.
And we became
friends, best friends.
And I met my neighbor
who was an Islamic guy,
and I grew up with
this Hindu background,
but we sort of hit it off.
One of my best friends who had
come from high school with me
was this Catholic guy who came
from a completely different
world, but we
seemed to get along.
My girlfriend was a
Chinese-American girl.
And all of a sudden,
I started to notice
we do have something in common.
Everybody asked each
other, where are you from,
and sort of suspects that you're
not from someplace familiar.
But we started to
find stuff in common.
So that was the second
sort of note that I made.
And then I'm going
to jump ahead.
And recently, as part of the
organization for which I work--
it's called Channel
One, and we broadcast
educational programming in
schools across the country.
I had gone to do a report
on the hurricane that
was in North Carolina and wasn't
as bad as everyone expected,
to the dismay of many
news people down there.
But we were there.
And I went to this kid.
And we were profiling a kid
as the family was preparing
for this hurricane that was
supposed to be the worst
hurricane, three times
worse than Andrew,
and all these terrible
things were predicted.
And I started talking to him.
He went to the
local high school.
And he and his
family had decided
not to leave and
evacuate but just sort
of hunker down in their home.
They had boarded up everything.
And so I started talking
to his grandmother, who
was in the corner
and an older woman.
And I said, so, are you scared?
I mean, they're saying
terrible things about this.
And do you feel safe
for your family?
And she said to me,
she said, oh, you know,
we're OK because God
will take care of us.
And if God willing, we'll
come out of this OK.
And I thought to myself,
wow, that's a lot of faith
she has because, man, they
say this thing's three
times the size of Texas
and all these things.
Yeah, you know?
And then I went to her grandson.
And I said, so, your grandmother
says, you know, god willing,
you guys are going
to make it through.
And I said, so, do
you think that's true?
And he said to me, he said,
oh, that's my grandmother.
We just sort of let her
think whatever she wants.
But we'll be OK.
And I said, so,
are you Christian?
Because the grandmother
had made it quite apparent
she was Christian.
And he said, oh, yeah.
I'm Christian.
And I said, do you
believe in God and stuff?
He said, oh, yeah, but he
just doesn't waste his time
with hurricanes.
So that was interesting to me.
I was, where's the discrepancy
between what his grandmother
thinks and what he thinks?
And it reminded me of another
incident about a year ago,
that I went to St. Louis, and
I did this story on the pope.
And we were at the
Kiel Center, which
has about 20,000-- seats
about 20,000 people.
And they had got young
people for this youth rally.
And I went around, and I
started asking the kids,
are you guys Catholic?
And half of them said yes.
Half of them said no.
And then I asked the ones
who said yes, so I said,
do you follow the
rules, being Catholic?
And they said, oh, no, man.
That's too-- it's
too much for us.
They knew exactly
what I was getting at.
And I said, so, then
why are you here?
You guys, some of
you aren't Catholic.
Some of you don't believe
in some of the things
that Catholics practice.
They said, yeah, but
it's the pope, man.
You know, it's the pope.
And to me, again-- all of a
sudden, I said, you know what?
Young people, they might
not follow the rules,
but they want to feel connected.
They want to feel--
or they feel connected, and
they want to understand how,
how they're connected.
And the last story--
recently, I had gone to India.
And I was reporting
on a story in Kashmir,
where there's this 52-year
conflict between India
and Pakistan over
this beautiful region,
but this non-strategic
region, of the world.
And they're just
fighting over it.
So I had gone up, and
I'd gone out marching
with this anti-insurgent group
as they searched for militants
who are in the region.
And we went out with AK-47s
and rocket launchers.
And, I mean, it was
intense because these guys
are taught to kill.
And I couldn't argue
with them about,
ultimately, we're
all the same, and we
come from the same place,
and blah, blah, blah,
because they are trained
to shoot on command.
And the funny part
is that the stuff
about being all
philosophical, that we all
come from the same place,
was so true in this case
because, ethnically, the guys
that they were trained to kill
were the same.
They share the same biology.
They share the same ethnicity.
And then I crossed
over to Pakistan,
and I started talking to
these so-called militants
or terrorists.
And I met with one
guy in a strip mall
in Islamabad, of all
places, a strip mall,
and I started asking questions.
And we talked for
about half an hour.
And I learned he
was 25 years old.
He was a computer engineer.
And so I asked
him after a while,
I said, so we hear there
are these terrorists.
Where are they?
I've got to talk to them.
And he said, oh, I'm
one of those terrorists.
He said, I've been trained
recently in Afghanistan.
And he listed all he
could use, grenades
and all these terrible
weapons he listed to me.
And I was sort of shocked.
And I said, so, after about
half an hour of talking to him,
I said, so, look.
I said, you're
Islamic or Muslim.
And I'm Hindu, or
I grew up Hindu.
And here we are.
And we're 25 years old.
And we seem to be
hitting it off.
We could be good friends.
And he thought for a moment.
And he said to me, he
said, you know what?
We could be good friends.
But as soon as I
cross the line--
and in this case, he
meant quite literally
when he crosses the border
as he's trained to do--
and he says, and my
commander tells me to kill,
he said, I would
look you in the eye,
and I would slit your throat.
And I wouldn't-- it wouldn't be
personal because, you're right.
We could be friends.
And I thought to
myself, I said, wow.
He meant the line literally.
But I thought to
myself, metaphorically,
or where is that line?
You can't even find it on
the ground, let alone--
I mean, you can
find it on the map.
But where is that line?
And I started to think
that line is internally.
It's somewhere in here.
And it's, unfortunately, it's
somewhere in here now too.
And I came back.
And this was just
a few months ago.
And I started to
think, you know,
I've got to start thinking
about how to talk about some
of these issues.
And I think in that
part of the world,
now they want the UN
to come in or the US
to come in and intervene.
And after hearing
that statement,
I knew that these United
Nations and task forces,
they can't come in and
resolve these sorts of things.
These guys, and I,
myself, have to go inward
and try to find the resolution
to conflicts like this.
And that's kind of what I've
dedicated in my work to.
And now, it's not all
such serious stuff.
I do a television program that's
geared towards young people.
And they don't want to just
hear about gruesome things,
like wars and AK-- they
liked the AK-47 part.
But so I write books.
And I do, recently, a
comic book because I
figured that was a cool place.
And we called it "The
Bulletproof Monk"
to sort of talk
about spirituality
but to talk about it
in a language that
applies to young people.
And as much as we want to
reach out to parents, for me,
it's about finding the language
that speaks to young people
directly.
And in many cases, they
want to hear things
that their parents might not
agree with because that's
really what they connect with.
And I think what
my mission really
has become is to be a
part of that movement,
to create that space, first
of all, where young people can
start to articulate themselves
and say-- sometimes when you
ask them and you engage them
about spirituality and things
like that, they say some
crazy, crazy things.
But I think giving
them the opportunity
to start voicing some of their
concerns and their priorities,
and what's important
to them, and what
are the things that they believe
in, whether or not the pope,
is very important.
And that's sort of
what's brought me here
and to talk to you guys.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I want to tell a
few stories as well.
Let's see.
One defining moment
in my life occurred
when I was six years old.
And my dad and I
were going for a walk
at the beach in Victoria,
British Columbia, Canada,
where we were
living at that time.
And it was kind of a cold day.
And I remember walking along
and then, about 50 feet ahead
of us, seeing this mother
with her maybe 3-year-old son.
And she was screaming
at him and slapping him.
And he was screaming and crying.
And I heard her saying, don't
you ever talk back to me again.
And it looked like kind
of a violent situation.
And I reached over and
grabbed my dad's hand,
and he held my hand firmly.
And he kept on
walking towards them.
And then he said something
that I'll always remember.
He said, there's no
monsters in this world.
There's just people
who've been hurt.
And whenever you see someone
hurting somebody else,
it's because somebody
hurt them once.
You can know that for a fact.
And so the cycle of pain
just keeps on going.
People get hurt.
They lash out at others.
The cycle continues until
somebody says, enough.
And he said, well,
this is enough.
And he walked over
towards this woman.
And I was holding his
hand a little bit behind.
And she was continuing
to yell at the child
and slap him in the face.
And he was screaming and
clearly very frightened.
And I could see
tears in his eyes.
And so they were so
caught up in their thing,
they didn't notice us
until we were right there.
And then my dad said, excuse me.
And she spun around and
looked pretty upset.
And then he said, it looked like
you were having a hard time,
and I wondered if we
could be of any help.
And she said, it's
none of your business,
and looked quite upset at him.
And he just said, well,
I'm sorry to bother you,
but I just wanted you to know
that we're here to support you
if there's any way we can.
And it looks like you're having
a bit of a rough time here.
And she stopped for a moment.
And I thought she might be
about to lash out again.
But then I saw this look of kind
of shame pass over her face.
And she said, I'm sorry.
I'm not normally like this.
It's just that I just broke
up with my boyfriend, his dad.
And it just seems
like everything's
falling apart around me.
And so then my dad
and her started
conversing a little bit.
And I pulled out this little
toy car I had in my pocket
and started playing with this
boy, whose name was Michael.
And we start playing on the
beach for a few minutes.
And I could see them
talking a little ways away.
Then at a certain point,
they came over towards us.
And I could see her
expressing her appreciation.
And then she said, it's
so good to have someone
to talk to about all this.
And then she came over, and
she picked him up and said,
it's OK now.
You don't have to worry.
We're in this together, and
we'll get through it together.
And I looked at him.
And I could see that he didn't
know whether to believe her
or not.
And he was still
kind of frightened.
And I handed him the toy car.
And I said, this is for you.
And this big smile
came over his face.
And then she said,
what do you say?
And she was kind of more
commanding than asking.
But he said, thank you, and
the smile got even bigger.
And then she said, thank you.
And then she carried him
off, and my dad picked me up
and carried me off.
And I never forgot
that moment because I'd
learned at the age of six,
not just through words
but through example,
about the power of meeting
hatred with love, which is
really what that was all about.
And it might seem like not
that significant an event.
I'm sure we've all seen things
like that happen before.
But so often, we turn
away, or we judge somebody
without really understanding
what's happening for them
or reaching out to make a
difference in their lives.
And I remember when
I was 10 years old,
to jump to another story, we had
a fruit fly problem, a big one,
like there were fruit flies
all over the house, clouds
and swarms.
And it was getting
kind of serious.
And at that time,
my dad was actually
writing "Diet For
a New America."
And he was writing the
chapter, the first chapter,
which deals with animals
and how they're really
very intelligent,
and in their own way,
and they certainly
have feelings.
And so we didn't know
what to do because here he
was writing this
amazing material
about the power of animals.
And yet it was a problem.
And my mom said, I
can't take it anymore.
I'm getting a fly swatter.
And I said, wait,
wait, wait, wait, wait.
Deo, stop.
Give me 24 hours to
use non-violent means.
She said, all right.
I'll give you one day.
But this has got to-- this
is pretty serious here.
So I wrote a letter.
I said, Dear fruit flies--
Let me first begin by
expressing my sincere respect.
I wish you the juiciest cow dung
piles and the biggest compost
heap for you and all
the generations to come.
Let me also state, however,
that this is our house
and not yours.
We pay rent here.
You don't.
We buy the food here.
There's a lot of food outside
that you can eat that we can't.
But our stomachs
are very limited.
So we can only eat
what's in here.
If you would simply go to
the compost pile outside,
there would be
enough for all of us.
Your presence here is creating
some real problems for us,
and we can't have
you here anymore.
So we want you to know that we
have purchased a fly swatter,
and we intend to use it if you
are not gone by dawn tomorrow.
So I then opened
a window partway.
We had tried opening
all the windows.
It seemed like more
flies came in before.
But at this point, I
opened a window partway.
And I put the note
up near the window
and drew an arrow
pointing to the opening,
and said, please exit
through this opening.
And then I read it aloud just
in case some of the fruit flies
couldn't read.
And they were buzzing all
over the place that day.
I went to sleep that night,
woke up in the morning.
There was not a
fly in the house.
I left the note up for a
couple weeks, took it down,
fruit flies coming back--
put it up, next
day at dawn, gone.
It tried it with
a raccoon that was
breaking into where
we fed our cats
and eating their cat food--
same thing, stopped coming.
I tried it with wasps
on a camping trip.
It didn't work.
[LAUGHTER]
So two for three, I decided
I'd just leave it there
for the moment.
I'm not going into the
pest extermination business
quite yet.
But it was very inspirational
to me to see all that happen.
Now, am I presuming that
the flies read the letter?
Am I presuming that
they understood
my reading the letter?
Not necessarily, but there was
some level of communication
that obviously occurred.
And I grew up
believing in miracles.
I grew up believing that those
kind of things could happen.
And my mom and dad, even though
they were perhaps a little bit
skeptical, were willing
to give it a try.
One of the things
that I have seen
is a lot of adults have this
image that young people today
don't care.
And they say, oh,
it's so great to see
a young person who cares about
what's happening in the world.
And I get kind of
upset when I hear that.
Because the truth is that
young people today care a lot.
And they're tremendously
informed about what's
going on in the world.
And that's why they're so
cynical because they also
don't couple that
information with action.
And I think that whenever we
learn about something that
brings pain to us, we have to
have some way of responding,
of knowing that
our lives matter.
Because we have an
impulse to respond.
And when you see a
story on the television
about some vast disaster
or some horrible suffering,
you are powerless
to interact with it.
And it used to be that when
we'd learn about something,
it was usually around
us, and we could usually
do something about it.
But today, more and
more young people
are faced with this
feeling of powerlessness.
And when they feel
powerless, they
feel hopeless because power
and hope are very intertwined.
Well, I would say that we've
asked about several hundred
thousand students whether
they believe the world will
be a better place in 30 years,
with less violence and less
pollution.
And I'd say that 95% of
them do not, so that only 5%
of the high school students
in the United States today
are optimistic that
in one generation
the world will be
a better place.
And I think that's
pretty terrifying.
And no one can
hear that and think
that young people don't care.
The truth is that
youth care a lot.
They know a lot.
And it's up to adults to
try and set an example
that our lives do
make a difference.
And nothing is more powerful
than example on that.
I'll tell you something else.
Amongst the youth
who are active,
who are involved in
environmental clubs,
in social justice clubs,
in human rights clubs, who
are organizing for
positive change, 50% to 75%
believe the world will be a
better place in a generation.
Is that because they're more
informed or more educated?
Perhaps, but, ultimately,
it's because they're
doing something.
We tend to project
outward on the world
our expectations of the world
from what's inside of us.
I'm not saying you should
always go around with the belief
that things will get better.
My dad has often said that
hope is the belief that things
will get better, and
fear is the belief
that things will get worse.
And if we're really going to
have substance to our lives,
we need to draw our strength
not so much from hope or fear
as from love.
Because love matters.
Love is eternal.
Every bit of love we ever
express makes a difference.
It lasts forever.
So I think that, truly, we need
to know the power of our hearts
to make a difference in our
families, in our communities,
and in our world.
And if we can come
from that place,
we will see some, I think,
some awesome changes.
And I believe that we need to
find our strength not in what
we see in the world around
us but in the dreams that
live within us, in the
hopes, in the prayers,
in the possibilities that we
carry in our hearts and souls.
I believe that the problems
we face in the world today
are not more
reasons for despair.
They are a call to
a place inside us
that says, no,
this is not right.
I'm not going to stand by and
let life on Earth be destroyed.
It's not OK with me that half
of the world's population
is malnourished or hungry,
the greatest percentage ever.
It's not OK with me that we
live under a nuclear shadow.
And all of human life,
all of life on this planet
could be annihilated
forever in an hour.
I'm not going to stand
by and let this go on.
I'm going to do
something about it.
And we all carry inside of us,
I believe, anger, sorrow, grief,
and love in response to the
challenges of our times.
We need to be willing
to face those feelings.
But we can't just stop
with feeling them.
We can't just stop
with knowing the facts.
We've got to take the
next step into action.
What kind of action is as
diverse as the human race?
For me, it was starting an
organization, and doing a tour,
and putting on summer camps
to empower our generation
to make a difference.
For some people, it's
organizing recycling projects.
For some people, it's working
on environmental justice issues.
on the economic disparity
in our country and in our world.
For some people, it's
working to end homelessness.
There are so many areas
where we need to work.
We need to heal
racism, and sexism,
and the list goes on and on.
And you all know it.
And you could certainly
make a longer list than I.
And yet each of us, I
believe, inside of our hearts
carries a calling,
carries a dream,
carries a vision of what
this world could be,
and carries everything we
need to make the difference
that we're here for.
So what is that
difference, I ask, guests?
And I'm not saying that
we should all immediately
have our answer.
To me, it's a question
that I ask every day.
Saint Francis said, "Lord, make
me an instrument of peace."
So I ask myself
every day, how can I
be an instrument of peace and
healing in this world today
and in this moment,
and in this moment?
And I try to keep
coming back to that.
And I don't always
have the answer,
but I can always
return to the question.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> When I was growing up,
I, completely and totally,
dutifully rebelled against
everything that my parents
stand for.
When I was 17 years old, I
was sitting in juvenile hall.
I'd been there several
times that month.
[LAUGHTER]
And the pain, the
internal stuff was so much
that when my father said, I
want you to try some meditation,
I was in enough pain to
hear him and say, oh, OK.
And also at that same time
was the first time in my life
where I was in trouble.
And I'd been in
trouble my whole life.
And it was always
everybody else.
Trouble was always about them,
and it was always external.
And for the first time I
saw like, oh, it's not.
It's internal.
The trouble is within
me, like Gotham
was saying, that line in
my heart, not a border,
but with that place
within me where
I wasn't showing up for myself.
And so although
I'd been brought up
with meditation, with
spiritual practice,
with compassion, with
love, unconditional love,
I didn't get it.
I didn't have it for myself.
And but in that moment,
for whatever reason,
even though it had been
said so many times,
you know, try meditation.
Try whatever.
My parents never tried
to push it on me at all.
But it was available.
The seeds had been
sown for sure.
And I started watching
my own inner experience.
I started looking at--
well, just watching my breath
was the first instruction
that I was given.
Just watch it.
Breathing in, count it.
Breath, say one,
breathing out, say two.
And so I sat there in my cell.
And I was like, 1, 2.
You know?
And I was trying to get to
10, and I couldn't really
get to 10.
But eventually,
over the few months
that I was institutionalized,
and put into a group home,
and all that stuff that I went
through, I started to meditate.
And I also started to pray.
And I started to look at myself
and about how unhappy I was.
And as I did these
practices, I started
to feel better, a
little bit better.
And then I looked at like,
I'm looking for happiness.
All of the crimes that I
committed, it was about I
thought that if I did
that, I'd be happy.
Everything in my
life, every action
that I had taken in
whatever confused
way was looking for happiness.
And as I started to
do spiritual practice,
I started to find some
happiness from the uni--
through whatever you
want to call it--
god, the universe, the heart,
yourself, your true nature,
so many different words
for the same thing
that I kind of
started to tap into.
And me being a fairly
compulsive type of person,
I got a taste of it.
And I was like, this is great.
Serenity, peace, happiness, I
want this more than anything.
Drugs and alcohol
don't even compare
to the type of happiness
that I started to find.
Just being comfortable, being
free from stress and fear,
wow, this is amazing.
I started sitting meditation
retreats, just doing it,
and went to India--
just, my life changed.
So I guess that's what's
bringing me here today.
A few years ago, a
couple years ago,
after getting back from India--
and as my life changed, and
people started saying like,
Noah, you used to be so angry.
What happened?
You're happy now.
You seem happy.
And I would tell them
about my spiritual practice
or whatever was going on.
They said, well, teach us.
Show us what you do--
my friends who were all punkers,
and they're all tattoo artists,
and they're all street kids.
>> You must have had a lot
of tattoo artist friends.
[LAUGHTER]
>> And so I started offering
little classes for my friends
like, OK, let's sit together.
Let's just sit
together and be quiet.
Let's not do anything,
just watch our breath.
And a couple of years
ago, I got invited
to teach meditation in
the same juvenile hall
where I had started.
[APPLAUSE]
>> I mean, I don't even know
what else there is to say.
My life has become this
spiritual practice.
It's what's important to me.
It's the only game
in town, really.
There's lots of other stuff.
And I still stay involved in the
scenes that I have come out of.
I still have a lot of the
same friends that aren't
very interested in what I do.
And the natural expression of
going inward is going outward
is exactly what Ocean
has been talking about,
as of being of service,
of using our life's energy
to benefit others.
And what that looks
like for Ocean
is all of this wonderful
action in environmental stuff,
and Gotham doing
his books and stuff.
And for me, I go into
the institutions,
and I teach meditation to kids.
One of the questions
that came up earlier--
I mean, I don't have any
answers about there's
all these questions
about parenting.
I have no-- you know, I have
no idea about parenting.
I'm not a parent.
But one of the things that I
have seen that seems useful
is that, often-- and
it was true for me too.
I couldn't hear it really
from my parents so much.
I couldn't hear.
My parents were spiritual,
but I couldn't really
hear it from them.
I had to kind of come to
it on my own on some level.
And one of the things
that seems very useful
and one of the places where I'm
putting a lot of my energy into
is mentoring, is having
people in our lives
that maybe aren't our--
are in relationship with
that aren't our parents that
are modeling that,
that can be teachers,
that can be friends to us.
That's been extremely
helpful to me and a role
that now I get to play
quite often for teens
in many different roles.
We've created rites
of passage groups
with kind of a spiritual basis,
just being spiritual mentors,
just being somebody in
young people's lives
that is standing for going
inward, that is standing
for practicing stopping,
that isn't spending all
of their time being busy,
that has a meditation
practice, or a yoga
practice, or whatever.
I don't think the specifics
of what you do is important
but that you do something,
that you do have a practice,
and you model that.
So I don't know that I
have much more to say,
but that it's just really
wonderful to be here
and that my intention in
coming to these things
is just to be an example.
And it's like we created
a nonprofit organization
to bring awareness
practices into institutions.
And I know that so many
people, and myself included,
it's like we want to
do all these things,
but we don't know how.
And just to inspire
people, just do it.
Like go teach yoga at
a homeless shelter.
Go volunteer at hospice.
Go start a recycling program.
Go.
Just go out and use your life's
energy to benefit others.
That in itself is a
spiritual practice.
That in itself is huge.
In closing, I would just like
to thank everybody for the work
that you're doing on yourselves,
for the work that you're
doing in the world, and
encourage you to do more.
>> Well, I mean,
I'll say something.
We're going to close, and
I'm into telling stories.
And one experience
I had specifically,
which to me has sort of become
a larger message, I was--
and if anyone's ever been
to India or Pakistan,
they know that what some of
the public buses look like.
They're these very old,
rickety looking things.
But there are
millions, literally
hundreds of people
hanging on to these buses
from every conceivable angle.
And I decided to be one of them.
So I tried.
And I grabbed on.
And literally, the
buses sort of lean over,
and they're barely
above the ground.
And I grabbed on.
And we had to go maybe
on a five-minute ride.
And I found myself gradually
losing grip, losing grip.
And nobody-- I mean, the bus
driver, the last thing he cares
about or even is aware
of is if somebody
is going to fall under the bus.
So I found myself
slipping slowly.
And I was almost to the point
where I was going to slip off.
I was, in fact, looking for a
place to fall off conveniently.
And at that moment, just
almost as I let go, somewhere
from this mass of
humanity inside,
somebody grabbed my
wrist, and held me,
and held me until we stopped.
And then we stopped, and 100,000
people poured off the bus,
and I never even knew who the
guy was who had grabbed me
and sort of held me on.
And I sort of
searched, but I knew
I wasn't going to
find the person.
And I thought about it.
And I didn't even think about
it until just now as everybody's
been sharing their stories
and talking about it.
But to me, that was
like the real message.
And I think what we're trying
to do is reach out a hand.
And you brought it up, and they
were talking about listening.
I think that's what we can do.
We can really reach out.
And if everybody in this
room went out and reached out
in whatever way they can in
whichever form they do it,
we can make a change.
And I hope and I
know, just listening--
I mean, I've known these
guys for less than 10 hours.
But it's pretty amazing.
So I'm inspired, and I can
see that they're reaching out.
And I just feel
privileged to be here.
So thanks for having me.
[APPLAUSE]
>> We thank you very much.
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]